Sources :

https://www.interviewbit.com/hibernate-interview-questions/

https://www.javatpoint.com/hibernate-interview-questions

Assignments:(Prepare by your own)

1) it converts all checked exceptions into unchecked exceptions.
2)it provides criteria builder API.
3)it suppotrs validation features.
4)it provides cache mechanism.
  1)first level cache 
  2)second level cache.


-it provides inheritance relationship .
1)default inheritance
2)single table
3)joint for table per class.

- What is automatic dirty checking in hibernate?

- How to connect two DataBases in one application.








Hibernate:

Hibernate is java framework that simplifies the development of java appliacation to interact with database.

Hibernate is ORM(Object relational mapping) tool.

It reduces the developer efforts ,time ,cost.

hibernate is an opensource,lightweight framework.

It is invented by gavin king in 2001.

Any type of appliacation can build with Hibernate framework.
ex.standalone application,web application,Distributed application.

Advantage of Hibernate over Jdbc :
1)Hibernate generate sql query at run time according database.
2)it provides automatic table creation feature.
3)It provides primary key auto generation feature.
4)it converts all checked exceptions into unchecked exceptions.
5)Hibernate provides their own query language i.e HQL(Hibernate query language).
6)it provides criteria builder API.
7)it suppotrs validation features.
8)it provides cache mechanism.
  1)first level cache 
  2)second level cache.
-It provide relationship mapping
1)one to one mapping
2)one to many mapping.
3)many to one mapping.
4)many to many mapping.

-it provides inheritance relationship .
1)default inheritance
2)single table
3)joint for table per class.





1) List some of the databases supported by Hibernate?

1)MySQL
2)Oracle
3)HSQL
4)PostgreSQL

 


2)What is SessionFactory ?
SessionFactory provides the instance of Session.It holds the data of second level cache that is not enabled by default. 
The org.hibernate.SessionFactory interface provides factory method to get the object of Session.


3) Is SessionFactory a thread-safe object?
Yes, SessionFactory is a thread-safe object, many threads cannot access it simultaneously.


 4)What is Session?
 It holds a first-level cache of data. The org.hibernate.Session interface provides methods to insert, update and delete the object.


5)Is Session a thread-safe object?
No, Session is not a thread-safe object, many threads can access it simultaneously. In other words, you can share it between threads.


6) What is save method?
Hibernate provides the save method on the session interface to save a record into the database.
 So the session.save inserts a record into the database. 
 It returns the id, that is the primary key that will be assigned to the database record.

7) What is saveOrUpdate method?
In addition to the save method, Hibernate also provides a method called saveOrUpdate on the session
 interface. Just as the name suggests, this method either performs a save operation or an update 
operation. If there is no record in the database corresponding to the object passed in,
 it inserts a record, but if there is a record corresponding to the object passed in, 
it just updates the existing record. 

7.2) What is persist Method()?

persist method is used   INSERT records into the database, 
but return type of persist is void.


8)  What is the difference between get and load method?

  
No.	get()	                                       load()

1)	Returns null if an object is not found.    	1) Throws ObjectNotFoundException if an object                                                             is not found.
2)	get() method always hit the database.     	2)load() method doesn't hit the database                                                                  always .
3)	It returns the real object, not the proxy.	3) It returns proxy object.
4)	It should be used if you are not sure           4)It should be used if you are sure that   
        about the existence of instance.	          instance exists.





9) What is the difference between update and merge method?
The differences between update() and merge() methods are given below.

No.	The update() method	                 merge() method
1)	Update means to update something.	       1)  Merge means to combine something.
2)	update() should be used if the             2)  merge() should be used if
     session doesn't contain an already                you don't know the 
     persistent state with the same id.                state of the session,
   It means an update should be used                 means you want to make
  inside the session only.                           the modification at any time.
  After closing the session,
  it will throw the error.	
                                                  
                                                   
                                                   
10) What are the states of the object in hibernate?(Life cycle of Object in Hibernate)
There are 3 states of the object (instance) in hibernate.

Transient: The object is in a transient state if it is just created and not associated with a session.

Persistent: The object is in a persistent state if a session is open, and you just saved the 
instance in the database or retrieved the instance from the database.

Detached: The object is in a detached state if a session is closed.
 After detached state, the object comes to persistent state if you call lock() or update() method.                                               
 


11)How to make an immutable class in hibernate?
Immutable class in hibernate creation could be in the following way. 

If we are using the XML form of configuration, then a class can be made immutable by marking mutable=false.
 The default value is true there which indicating that the class was not created by default.

In the case of using annotations, immutable classes in hibernate can also be created by
 using @Immutable annotation.




12) What is automatic dirty checking in hibernate?

The automatic dirty checking feature of Hibernate, calls update statement automatically on the objects
 that are modified in a transaction.



13)How many types of association mapping are possible in hibernate?
There can be 4 types of association mapping in hibernate.
One to One
One to Many
Many to One
Many to Many
 

15) What is lazy loading in hibernate?
Lazy loading in hibernate improves the performance. It loads the child objects on demand.

Since Hibernate 3, lazy loading is enabled by default, and you don't need to do lazy="true". It means not to load the child objects when the parent is loaded.

16) What is Eager loading in hibernate?
Eager loading in hibernate it will decrease the performance. It loads the child objects automatically when application started.

It means it will  load the child objects when the parent is loaded.


16)What is HQL (Hibernate Query Language)?
Hibernate Query Language is known as an object-oriented query language.
 It is like a structured query language (SQL).

The main advantage of HQL over SQL is:

Database independent.
Simple to write a query.


17)What is the difference between first level cache and second level cache?

No.	First Level Cache	                        Second Level Cache

1)	First Level Cache is associated with Session.  1)  Second Level Cache is associated with SessionFactory.
	
2)	It is enabled by default.	               2) It is not enabled by default.We have to enable it.
                                                       For Enabling we have to add EH Cache jar.


3)  The first level cache is available  only until the session is open,                3) The second-level cache is available through the  
    the first level cache is destroyed.  once the session is closed,                     application’s life cycle, It is only destroyed when application is stopped.
              

18)What can you tell about Hibernate Configuration File?
Hibernate Configuration File or hibernate.cfg.xml is one of the most required configuration files in Hibernate. 
By default, this file is placed under the src/main/resource folder.
The file contains database related configurations and session-related configurations.
Hibernate facilitates providing the configuration either in an XML file (like hibernate.cfg.xml) or a properties file (like hibernate.properties).

This file is used to define the below information:

Database connection details: Driver class, URL, username, and password.

hibernate.cfg.xml



There must be one configuration file for each database used in the application,
 suppose if we want to connect with 2 databases, then we must create 2 configuration files with different names.


Hibernate properties: Dialect, show_sql, second_level_cache, and mapping file names.

Hibernate.properties



