Mphasis questions 


1)Solid oops features 
And normal oops features?

2)
What is designed pattern 

Write program to create singleton object?
3)

Write a program create immutable class?
4)


Synchronisation in thread and difference between normal and synchronised threads? 
4)


Why string is immutable?




5)Difference between stringbuffer and string builders 
6)


What is reflection API


7)Why field injection not recommend 
8)


Types of dependency injection and what is requirements of ioc to work 


Stereotypes annotations?

9)


Why hibernate come into picture?



10)How to insert data using hibernate orm hql query and coding step orally 

11)

What is serialisation and how to implementation with  methods 
12)


What is transient and final ?


13)What is deserialisation And methods 
14)


How to do customisation using externalisation how many method present 


15)Marker interface



16)What difference spring and spring boot 

17)
What jpa repository and @repository 
18)

What is web services need ?


19)What is functional interface why it is used?

1.) What are annotations in Spring Boot.	

2.) Difference Between Rest Controller and @Controller in Java	

3.) What are Java 8 Features	

4.) Micro Services	
   
a) What are Micro Services Design Patterns	
    
b) Communications Between Services,ASNC calls in Microservices	
	

1.) Difference between Array List & Linked List?	

2.) How the exceptions are handled in Java? OR Explain exception handling mechanism in Java?	

3.) What is the difference between error and exception in Java?	

4.) what are checked and unchecked exceptions in java?	

5.) What are the advantages of Spring Boot?	

6.) Why We are using Micro Services?	

7.) What are advantages of Micro Services?	


1.) What are the advantages of using Spring Boot?	

2.) What are the Spring Boot key components? 	

3.) Why Spring Boot over Spring? 	

4.) How does Spring Boot works? 	

5.) Spring Boot Implementation Process?	

5.) What are the types of API testing?	

6.) What are the protocols used in API Testing?	

7.) What are the tools used for API Testing?	
	

1.) What are annotations in java spring boot?	

2.) Why Spring Boot over Spring?	

3.) How does Spring Boot works?	

4.) functional interface in java	

5.) transaction management in spring boot javatpoint	

6.) difference between orm and jdbc	
	
                  
      Java Spring Boot Interview Topics	

1.)Find the largest palindrome among the list aba, madam, hihihih? (Program)	

2.)Can you tell me what a static block?	

3.)The static block is loaded before the class loads or it is after the class loads?	

4.)Difference between this and super key word?	

5.)What is the difference between method overloading and method overriding?
6.)Can you explain me about abstract class?	

7.)Can you tell me what the advantages of handling the exceptions are?	

8.)What are all the key words used in exception handling?	

9.)Difference between final finally and finalize in java?	

10.)Can you explain me about what is constructor overloading?	

11.)  Can you give me the features of the Java 8?	

12.) Tell me about lambda expressions?	

13.) Can you explain what does Stream API is?	

14.) Create a class person class with age, name & ID then add items to that person and then using stream find out the all the id’s whose age is greater than 45? (Program)	

15.) What is the optional class?	

16.) What happen when a spring boot application is loaded?	

17.) What is spring actuator does?	

18.) Can you give me the structure of the spring boot?	

19.) Difference between spring security and spring boot security?	

20.) Difference between Component and @Component?	

21.) What about the deployment of spring boot application?	

22.) Are you aware of the Docker & Jenkins?	

23.) Normal and Functional Interface	

24.) Optional Class	

25) Difference between Map & Flat Map

26) What are collections & Streams

27)Excess Modifier